% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is \refsubsec{short-termgoal:bettermodels}, which
% introduces the short-term goal: better models.

In the past few years, deep learning models\footnote{``Deep
learning'' is an umbrella term referring to machine learning
algorithms---mainly artificial neural networks---that
feature a large (i.e., deep) number of hidden layers.
See~\refsec{deepneuralnetworks} for a broader discussion of
this topic.} have achieved significant improvements. This
has been possible because new, more powerful, deep learning
techniques have been introduced. Similarly, the libraries
for prototyping experiments, such as \emph{Tensorflow}
\parencite{abadi2016tensorflow} or \emph{Pytorch}
\parencite{paszke2019pytorch}, have become more powerful and
easier to use. Thus, it is not surprising to think that in
the next years, the performance of \gls{arna} models will
only improve from the models we have today. Although
expensive, new datasets are created at an increasing pace.
The short-term goal around this problem is, necessarily, to
increase the accuracy and performance that these models
achieve. Although the ambiguity of tonal problems and
annotations is an important issue
\parencite{ju2021addressing}, I am convinced that more and
better data combined with larger deep learning models will
lead to more accurate \gls{arna} systems.
