% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

Chords often occur at the beginning of measures. The
\gls{duration14} input representation provides the network
with this kind of structural information. Namely, the
timesteps where a new measure starts, and the timesteps
where a new note onset starts. This complements the
pitch-related information provided by the other inputs,
\gls{bass19} and \gls{chroma19}. An ablation study is
proposed here, where the \gls{duration14} input
representation is removed. The hypothesis is that this will
be detrimental to the performance of the \gls{crnn},
particularly, the chord segmentation. The position of the
chords is determined from the predictions of the
\gls{harmonicrhythm7} task. Thus, losing performance in this
task results in worse chord segmentation, and it is
hypothesized that the \gls{duration14} input is correlated
with the performance of \gls{harmonicrhythm7}. The
modifications proposed in the ablation study are shown in
\reffig{ablation4}.

\phdfigure[Modifications proposed in the fourth ablation
study, where the \gls{duration14} input representation is
removed. This is expected to affect the chord
segmentation]{ablation4}
