## March 23, 2020

Today, I was analyzing a short fragment from Tchaikovsky's Manual of Harmony. Example 185-a. 

Laurent Feisthauer and I are encoding these examples to collect a dataset of local key. We want to use such dataset to measure the performance of our algorithms.

In this example, 185-a, Tchaikovsky passes through the following keys: C major, D minor, E minor, F major, and Bb minor. Unlike most examples, there is no pivot chord connecting the keys. What Tchaikovsky denotes as the beginning of a new key, often does not refer to a tonic chord in that key. Moreover, the keys in this example, except for Bb minor, show a progression of diatonic degrees in C major. It is almost as Tchaikovsky is "tonicizing" the scale degrees ii, iii, and IV of C major.

It made me think about a possible idea for differentiating modulations from tonicizations.

In tonicizations, post-tonicization harmonies contradict the "tonal space" of the tonicized key. They support the "tonal space" of the main key. In other words, the harmonies after a tonicization bring the original key back.

In modulations, post-modulation harmonies support the "tonicized" key. They support the departure of the "tonal space" of the piece, away from its origin. In other words, the harmonies after a modulation disrupt the original key.

What is novel about this idea is that modulations and tonicizations are short-term. Modulation is not accomplished by the _length_ of the departure but by a **disruption** in the "tonal space". When that tonal space is not disrupted, we are observing a tonicization.

This sounds very close to what theorists say, but it somehow feels different in my mind. Like I am about to be able to quantify it.