## April 3, 2020 - On a preliminary outline of my thesis

For my dissertation, I want to work with Roman Numeral Analysis.

I want it to have two symmetric components to it: analytical and generative. The analytical component deals with annotating a digital music score with RNA. The generative component deals with suggesting continuations to incomplete fragments of music. The knowledge of the system of the harmonic context is what drives the suggestions.

If successful, the internship will contribute to the generative component of my thesis.

Both, the analytical and generative components share common features. The most important one, an architecture. What it means to understand the harmonic context of a musical fragment. Not only conceptually, but also mathematically. One (or several) neural network(s) and their latent representations.

The architecture is necessary for writing labels as much as for suggesting music. The shared architecture delimits is part of both components.

About the work on keys. It is not a dismissed effort. In the harmonic analysis paper, Temperley (1997) wrote the problem as simultaneous key and root estimation.

I think it goes deeper. Key is not enough. We need to localize the function of the key change when deciding the RNA annotation. If the key is tonicized, the label would have a slash `V/ii`. If the key is a modulation, the label would change the key `d:i`. These are very different labels and perceivable by humans if mistaken. Yet, the only difference is the context of the change of key.

I consider, therefore, that my effort has not been in vain so far, and there is more to do with keys.