## March 17, 2020

I sent a couple of internship project proposals to Avid. The first one is a harmonizer model. The second one, a pitch-spelling model.

Moreover, writing the proposals helped me to constrain my thesis research.

I have found myself more and more involved in Roman Numeral Analysis. That is obvious from reading my Masters and derived work. The topic is not obliged to interact with key estimation. Yet, they both feel very related to me.

At the end of the day, Temperley and Sleator computed their RNA output **inside** the key model of Melisma.

The way I see it, roman numerals are a compressed representation of key and harmony. This representation is time-varying, human-readable, ambiguous, among other things. It is very difficult to unpack it and understand what it actually represents. I hypothesize that is the reason why it has *stick* as a favorite tool of music theorists and analysts. It provides **much** information in a very small space. That space is also human-readable and moldable to interpretation, like language.

I foresee roman numerals as a bridge to produce more representations. Representations that are more **formal** and useful for machines.

I often think of roman numerals as a natural language describing harmonic change. I want to design the first of many formal languages of music. I want to enable machines to extract information from that natural language. Create lower-level representations that convey a part of that information to the machine.

I hope that will enabe the musically-aware models that researchers in my field strive for.