% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

This dissertation is organized in seven chapters and an
appendix. \refchap{introduction} described the motivations,
challenges, and existing progress toward \gls{arna}.
\refchap{introductiontoromannumeralanalysis} introduces
\gls{rna} from a musical perspective, its history and
digitization. \refchap{background} introduces the relevant
research around music representation, deep learning, and
\gls{mir} for tonal music analysis.
\refchap{dataacquisitionandpreparation} introduces the
publicly available datasets, the data aggregation process,
and the data-augmentation technique based on synthesis of
training examples. \refchap{modeldesign} presents the design
choices of the \gls{crnn} presented in this dissertation,
\gls{augmentednet}: input and output representations,
convolutional layers, recurrent layers, \gls{mtl}
configuration, and methods to generate \gls{rna} labels from
the predictions of the model.
\refchap{experimentalevaluation} presents the evaluation of
the model against the state-of-the-art in \gls{arna}.
\refchap{conclusions} summarizes the main findings and
presents closing remarks on the current state of automatic
tonal analysis and future directions in the field.
