% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is \refsubsec{keyestimation}, which introduces the
% key estimation.

Key identification is a fundamental task in the analysis of
tonal music. It is often a preliminary or concurrent step to
other common musicological tasks like harmonic analysis and
cadence detection. In particular, the knowledge of the
musical key can help a music analyst to find boundaries in a
musical piece, interpret the role of notes and chords, or
suggest a musical form to which the analyzed piece conforms.
Due to its importance, key estimation is a well-studied
research topic in MIR, and multiple key-analysis algorithms
have emerged during the last decades. Broadly, there are two
types of key-estimation algorithms: those that find the
\emph{main key} of the piece (often called
\emph{global-key-estimation} models in the context of
computational musicology and MIR), and those that find the
changes of key \emph{within} the piece (often called
\emph{local-key-estimation} models). The global key is
related with the key of the piece or work, for example, as
written in the title of the score. Generally, that
relationship is well-defined. A local key is related to the
music-theoretical concepts of \emph{modulation},
\emph{applied dominants}, and \emph{tonicization}. However,
such relationship is not well-defined.

In this section, I describe the different global and local key estimation models that have been presented in the MIR literature over the years.
