% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

The \gls{crnn} provides predictions every \gls{32nd} note.
Yet, most of these timesteps should not have a \gls{rna}
label generated. Therefore, the location of the chords
should be determined (i.e., the chord segmentation). In
order to determine which rows of predictions should be
considered \gls{rna} labels, the onset predictions
$\elonsetpred \in \setonset$ retrieved from the
\gls{harmonicrhythm7} classifier are used to filter the
predictions of the \gls{crnn}. After filtering out all rows
that are not \gls{rna} onsets, the number of rows in the
table of predictions is reduced, as shown in
\reftab{crnn_predictions_onsets_cut}. One \gls{rna} label
will be generated for each of these rows. In addition to the
reduced number of rows, all other classification tasks
except for \gls{harmonicrhythm7}, \gls{localkey38},
\gls{tonicization38}, \gls{bass35}, and \gls{rn31} have been
removed for brevity from
\reftab{crnn_predictions_onsets_cut}, as these are not used
in this method.\footnote{In
\textcite{napoleslopez2021augmentednet}, we have discussed
that having additional tasks might still be useful for the
learned representations of the neural network, even if some
of those tasks are not used for predicting the final output
annotations. This is because the neural network learns
representations that need to solve all the problems at once,
which leads to more robust representations in some cases.
See \textcite{ruder2017overview} for more details on the
effects of \gls{mtl}.}

\phdtable[Predictions from the \gls{crnn} that were
considered the onset of a \gls{rna} label by the
\gls{harmonicrhythm7}
classifier]{crnn_predictions_onsets_cut}
