% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

The \gls{kmt} dataset was introduced in
\textcite{napoleslopez2020local}.

All the labels in the dataset were obtained from the
modulation excerpts of five music theory textbooks:
\textcite{aldwell2019harmony, kostka2008tonal,
reger1904supplement, rimskikorsakov1886practical,
tchaikovsky1872guide}.

The dataset contains, in total, 201 excerpts of music with
annotated modulations and tonicizations. The annotations are
encoded in the form of \gls{rna} annotations of all the
chords in the dataset. 

The music notation of each file was encoded in the
\gls{humkern} symbolic music representation. The \gls{rna}
annotations were digitally encoded as an additional Humdrum
\gls{spine} in the \emph{harmalysis} format (see
\refsubsubsec{harmalysis}). When the theorists of the
original sources provided \gls{rna} annotations, those have
been preserved in the digital transcriptions. Otherwise,
N\'apoles L'opez and Feisthauer provided them. All the
annotations related to modulations were taken exclusively
from the textbooks. Tonicizations rely on the \gls{rna}
annotations of the chords and these were not always provided
in the textbooks, therefore, they were often supplied. For
some onsets, multiple key annotations were provided by the
theorists. For these excerpts, the authors of the dataset
encoded the keys in chronological order.
