% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is
% \refsubsec{themeandvariationencodingswithromannumerals(tavern)},
% which introduces the theme and variation encodings with
% roman numerals (tavern).

The \gls{tavern} dataset was introduced by
\textcite{devaney2015theme}. This dataset consists of
\gls{rna} annotations for sets of piano theme and variations
by Beethoven and Mozart. The dataset contains a total of 27
sets of theme and variations, 10 by Mozart and 17 by
Beethoven. Unlike most datasets of this kind, the
\gls{tavern} dataset provides two sets of annotations for
each piece. Three experts annotated a set of 18 theme and
variations each. Presumably, a set of 9 pieces annotated by
annotators 1 and 2, a set of 9 pieces by annotators 2 and 3,
and a set of 9 pieces by annotators 1 and 3. The full
distribution of the pieces among annotators is not provided,
but the dataset provides both sets of annotations per piece,
as well as an integrated analysis resulting from combining
both annotations (and resolving any differences between
annotators). All three annotators were PhD-level music
theorists.

The dataset was divided in phrases rather than pieces. Thus,
each file in the dataset corresponds to a phrase. The
dataset consists of a total of 1060 phrases, where the
majority of those phrases are in the major mode (86.5\%).