% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

According to the count performed in this \thesisdiss{}, the
\gls{mps} dataset has a total duration in quarter notes of
22,305, across 7,465 measures. After preprocessing and
preparation, the \gls{mps} dataset contributed 15,865
\gls{rna} chord annotations, which have an average harmonic
rhythm of 1.41 quarter notes ($\musQuarter$).

The distribution of the \gls{rna} annotations and their
inversions are shown in \reffig{mps_rn_inversion}. In this
dataset, all occurrences of $\rnN$ chords are in first
inversion, which is not the case for any other dataset.
Although this is also the most common occurrence of
\gls{neapolitan} chords, so it is consistent with the
musical practice of the period. The \gls{mps} dataset is
also one of two datasets lacking any examples of $\rnIIIaug$
chords (the other one being \gls{kmt}). This is an
interesting case, because a $\rnIIIaug$ chord is an
enharmonic of a $\rnVaug$ chord in the same key, as both are
made of the same \gls{pcset} but with different note
spellings. What this indicates, is that all occurrences of
augmented triads found in the \gls{mps} dataset occur in a
major-key context, which forces the Roman numeral method to
label it as $\rnVaug$. See the
Appendix~\ref{chap:amethodforsystematicromannumeralanalysis}}
for an explanation for why this is the case.

\phdfigure[All the \gls{rna} labels taken from the \gls{mps}
dataset. Each bar indicates the counts of the Roman numeral
class in different inversions]{mps_rn_inversion}

\phdfigure[All the keys spanned by the \gls{rna} annotations
of the \gls{mps} dataset. For each key, the counts indicate
which ones correspond to modulations (local key regions) and
tonicizations ]{mps_key_mod_ton}
