% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

\refsec{ablationstudies} introduced a baseline \gls{crnn}
model and a series of experiments to explore the its
underlying components. This baseline model was subsequently
used in \refsec{effectsofdataaugmentation} to explore the
effects of data-augmentation techniques when training the
model on seven publicly available datasets. In the
experiments of \refsec{effectsofdataaugmentation}, the model
was trained on each dataset individually. However, the best
performance of a deep learning model is often achieved when
more data is used to train it.

This section reports the results of training the model with
the aggregated dataset, consisting of all the training data
across the seven publicly available datasets. Furthermore,
the model was evaluated on the test portion of each
individual dataset. The results are reported in
\reftab{final_results_dataset}. In this experiment, both
data-augmentation techniques, \emph{transposition} and
\emph{synthesis}, were used in combination. 
% Due to the large training time (16 hours), only one
% experiment was conducted on the aggregated dataset.

\phdtable[Validation accuracy of the model trained with the
aggregated dataset. The validation accuracy is reported in
the test set of each dataset and for each of the 9
classification tasks of the model]{final_results_dataset}
