% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

The test set used for the comparison was the same one used
in the experiment of
\refsec{trainingontheaggregateddataset}. A total of 94 files
are used for testing, which were sampled from the seven
publicly available datasets (see
\refsec{publiclyavailabledatasets}). All of the input files
in the test set were provided in the \gls{musicxml} format,
and their ground-truth annotations in \gls{romantext}. The
\gls{melisma} model does not support \gls{musicxml} inputs,
in this case, all the \gls{musicxml} files were translated
into \gls{humkern}. Similarly, three models, \gls{melisma},
\textcite{chen2021attend, mcleod2021modular}, provided their
output annotations in other formats. For these models, the
original outputs were translated into \gls{romantext}. All
the comparisons were performed between the ground-truth
\gls{romantext} in the test set, and each of the
\gls{romantext} files generated by the models (either
directly or through a translation). All the models were
evaluated with the same \gls{rna} vocabulary, which required
standardization.


% The \gls{rna} labels written in the \gls{romantext} files
% were generated using the \gls{natem} algorithm, a chord
% vocabulary standardization process explained below. 
