\chapter*{Abstract}
% \addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Abstract}
\label{chap:abstract-en}

One of the most common ways to analyze a piece of tonal
music is through Roman numeral analysis. This requires the
inspection of several attributes related to chords and keys.
Chords can be inspected in terms of their properties: root,
quality, inversion, and function. Keys can be inspected in
terms of their temporal scope as modulations or
tonicizations. Each of these attributes (or tasks) of Roman
numeral analysis can be modeled in isolation. However,
recent research has found that analyzing several tonal tasks
simultaneously leads to more robust MIR models. This has
motivated the research of multitask models for Roman numeral
analysis. In this dissertation, I extend this line of
research by: (1) improving the data-curation process for
existing datasets; (2) developing a new data-augmentation
technique for Roman numeral analysis models; (3) improving
the design of existing convolutional recurrent neural
networks; and (4) extracting more tonal tasks from the Roman
numeral annotations. Combining these ideas, I trained a new
Roman numeral analysis model. Among other applications, this
will facilitate advanced searching in music collections. For
example, searching by chord progressions or by modulation
trajectories.
