\chapter*{Acknowledgements}
\addcontentsline{toc}{chapter}{Acknowledgements}
\label{chap:acknowledgements}

I will first and foremost thank my PhD advisor, Ichiro
Fujinaga. For the most part of my PhD, Ichiro scheduled
weekly meetings with me that were of the utmost help.
Together, we walked through machine-learning prototypes,
presentations, code, music theories, and papers. Research
aside, Ichiro has been a supportive friend since I moved to
Montr\'eal. Thank you, Ich.

Secondly, I would like to thank my family, who have
supported me all along: my spouse and best friend, Kinga; my
parents, Martha and Eduardo; my siblings, Grecia, Eric, and
sister-in-law Fabiola; and my parents in law, Gra\.zyna and
Miros\l{}aw.

After my advisor, my co-authors provided me with many ideas
and feedback related to the research presented here. Thanks
to all of you: Gabriel Vigliensoni, Claire Arthur, Laurent
Feisthauer, Florence Lev\'e, Mark Gotham, and the
Computational Tonal Studies group.

Thanks to all the members of the \gls{ddmal} and
\gls{cirmmt} communities, but particularly, thanks to
Gabriel Vigliensoni, Martha Thomae, Matan Gover, Yulia
Draginda, Yuval Adler, Alex Daigle, Emily Hopkins, Yaolong
Ju, Timothy de Reuse, Sylvain Margot, Jacob Sanz-Robinson,
K\'e Zhang.

Thanks to McGill professors Julie Cumming, Peter Schubert,
William Caplin, Jon Wild, Philippe Depalle, Marcelo
Wanderley, and Gary Scavone, from whom I learned different
aspects of music and technology that contributed explicitly
or implicitly to the work presented in this dissertation.

Thanks to other members of the global music information
retrieval and computational musicology communities,
particularly, Craig Sapp, Michael Scott Cuthbert, Jacob
Tyler Walls, Reinier de Valk, Emilia Parada-Cabaleiro, and
others with whom I shared code, papers, and conversations.

The research presented in this dissertation would not have
been possible without the generous support of different
institutions. The \gls{frqsc}, from which I obtained a
doctoral scholarship from 2019--2022 (dossier number
271479); \gls{cirmmt}, from which I obtained several travel
awards and a student project award; the \gls{simssa}
project, from which I received a generous stipend during the
first two years of my PhD (2017--2018) and a role as a
casual research assistant for the remainder of my PhD; the
Schulich School of Music, from which I received additional
travel and conference registration awards. Thank you to all
these wonderful organizations and their commitment to music
research.

Thanks to people who had an early influence in me and helped
me to set my current path: Luis Alberto Casillas
Santill\'an, Abelardo Guti\'errez, Juan Jos\'e L\'opez
Sandoval, Nancy Arana Daniel, Sergio Bola\~nos, Leo Hendrik
Reyes, and Juan Rodrigo P\'erez C\'ardenas.

Lastly, my friends, for being always there: Jhonnatan Razo,
Dulce Alcal\'a, and El\'i Lezama. Â¡Gracias, amigos!
