% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

According to the count performed in this \thesisdiss{}, the
\gls{abc} dataset has a total duration in quarter notes of
48,034, across 15,746 measures. After preprocessing and
preparation, the \gls{abc} dataset contributed 29,427
\gls{rna} chord annotations, which have an average harmonic
rhythm of 1.63 quarter notes ($\musQuarter$).

The distribution of the \gls{rna} annotations and their
inversions are shown in \reffig{abc_rn_inversion}. As
expected, all of the $\rnCad$ annotations correspond to a
``second inversion'' position. While not all of the datasets
provide this type of annotation (cadential six-four chords)
this dataset provides nearly 110 examples of them. The
\gls{abc} dataset is also one of two datasets (the other one
being \gls{tavern}) that provide examples of $\rnIIIaugsev$
chords, which is the least common type of Roman numeral in
the vocabulary.

\phdfigure[All the \gls{rna} labels taken from the \gls{abc}
dataset. Each bar indicates the counts of the Roman numeral
class in different inversions]{abc_rn_inversion}




\phdfigure[Intersection between the \gls{pcset}s in this
dataset and the \gls{pcset}s in all other
datasets][0.5]{abc_pcset_venn}



\phdfigure[All the keys spanned by the \gls{rna} annotations
of the \gls{abc} dataset. For each key, the counts indicate
which ones correspond to modulations (local key regions) and
tonicizations ]{abc_key_mod_ton}

