% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is the introduction to
% \refchap{introductiontoromannumeralanalysis}, which goes
% before any of its sections.

\gls{rna} is a common methodology in modern music theory
textbooks dealing with tonal music. The name derives from
the use of Roman numerals to denote scale degrees, which, in
turn, indicate diatonic chords in a certain musical key. The
musical key is usually prepended to the first Roman numeral
of the piece, using a case-sensitive note
letter\footnote{Generally, upper-case letters are used to
indicate major keys, and lower-case letters are used to
indicate minor keys.} followed by a colon. When there are
changes of key throughout the piece, these are indicated in
a similar way, with a new key letter followed by a colon,
prepended to a Roman numeral.

\gls{rna} is an alternative way to annotate chords than the,
possibly more popular, chord label system. \gls{rna}
facilitates the annotation of more information than chord
labels. Namely, changes of key and special chords. Perhaps
for this reason \gls{rna} is common among tonal music theory
textbooks, as it is helpful to break down a piece
analytically. \reffig{rnandcl} shows a fragment of music
annotated with both Roman numeral and chord label
annotations.

\phdfigure[The first eight measures of Josephine Lang's Op.8
 No.1 ``Schmetterling,'' annotated with \gls{rna} and chord
 labels underneath][1.0]{rnandcl}
