% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is \refsubsec{adoptionofthewebersyntax}, which
% introduces the adoption of the weber syntax.

The notational system introduced by
\textcite{weber1817versuch} was not immediately adopted by
other theorists. One of the first adopters was
\textcite{hamilton1840catechism}. Hamilton, and several
others, did not adopt the notation for major and minor chord
qualities. All scale degrees are indicated with a single
Roman numeral style, regardless of their chord qualities. In
Hamilton's annotations, Roman numerals indicate melodic
scale degrees, instead of chord roots, as shown in
\reffig{primary_sources/hamilton1840cathecism044}.

\phdfigure[Use of Roman numerals in \textcite{hamilton1840catechism}, indicating the scale degree of the bass, regardless of the chord root. In modern Roman numeral notation, these annotations would be written as $\rn{V}\rnsixfive$, $\rn{V}\rnfourthree$, $\rn{V}\rntwo$, $\rn{V}\rnfourthree$, and $\rn{V}\rnseven$, respectively][0.75]{primary_sources/hamilton1840cathecism044}

The next adopter of the Roman numeral notation among German
theorists appears to be \textcite{meister1852vollstandige}.
Meister often accompanies the Roman numeral notation with
chord labels and figured bass indications, as in
\reffig{primary_sources/meister1852vollstandige32}.

\phdfigure[Use of Roman numerals in \textcite{meister1852vollstandige}, accompanied by chord label and figured bass indications][1.0]{primary_sources/meister1852vollstandige32}

Other authors adopted Roman numerals in the nineteenth
century \parencite{sechter1853grundsatze,
richter1860lehrbuch, tiersch1874elementarbuch,
tracy1878theory}. \textcite{sechter1853grundsatze} mostly used a
chord-label notation. In latter parts of the treatise, Roman
numerals are introduced in the musical examples, possibly to
relate the scale degree of a chord root in different key
contexts. An example is shown in \reffig{primary_sources/sechter1853grandsatze103}.

\phdfigure[Use of Roman numerals, underneath chord label annotations, in \textcite{sechter1853grundsatze}][1.0]{primary_sources/sechter1853grundsatze103}