% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

The results in Figures \ref{fig:ablation_augmentation_loss}
and \ref{fig:ablation_augmentation_accuracy} show the
summary of the four experiments described above. All the
experiments were run for a fixed number of 200 epochs. The
lines shown correspond to the average validation loss
(\reffig{ablation_augmentation_loss}) and validation
accuracy (\reffig{ablation_augmentation_accuracy}) achieved
at epoch $n$ over all seven datasets. The validation
accuracy is slightly better in the experiment where both
data-augmentation techniques were included.
\reftab{augmentation_results} supports this reading of the
accuracy plot by showing average accuracy achieved in each
dataset by the end of the experiment.

\phdfigure[Average validation loss achieved in the four
experiments with data augmentation. The average accuracy
value is across the seven datasets at the given
epoch]{ablation_augmentation_loss}

\phdfigure[Average validation accuracy achieved in the four
experiments with data augmentation. The average accuracy
value is across the seven datasets at the given
epoch]{ablation_augmentation_accuracy}

\phdtable[Average performance and standard deviation of the
four experiments with data augmentation over the seven
publicly available datasets]{augmentation_results}

Both data augmentation techniques have a positive effect in
the performance of the model compared to only using the
original data. Transposition continues to be the most
effective data-augmentation technique on its own, however,
the experiments show that both techniques do not interfere
with each other. In fact, the most effective technique is to
use both, transposition and synthetic examples, although the
improvement is not extensive and the training time
increases. However, considering the difficulty of obtaining
expert-curated data for \gls{arna}, using both techniques
seems to provide a consistent improvement at the expense of
more computation. Thus, n future experiments, the proposed
model is trained with both data augmentation techniques
simultaneously.
