% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

In conclusion, this dissertation described a two-year
research effort on \gls{arna}, with the aid of a many-year
effort in music theory, music encoding, and computer science
understanding. The main contribution of the report is the
documented account of experimental results, design
decisions, musical choices, and software development
considerations. If this dissertation was written six months
from now, the model would look different. That is, there is
much to do, many experiments to try, and many ideas worth
implementing. Hopefully, the work presented here will be of
help to future researchers tackling this and similar
problems by illustrating some of the findings and lessons
learned. In a not-too-long future, I foresee these systems
being used by end-user musicians and students. In general, I
think of such a system as a ``music theory'' calculator.
They will not replace the role of music theorists, but they
will automate the ``easy'' tasks of music theory, like
labelling clear unambiguous chords in clear unambiguous
tonal contexts. In the same way that a statistician is freed
to let the mind fly with tools that compute averages,
standard deviations, and graphs automatically for them, I
see music theorists released from trivial analytical tasks,
so that they can focus on deeper quests for musical
understanding.
%  When Markov first invented the famous \emph{Markov
% chains}, he computed the probabilities of English letters
% in Shakespeare using pen and paper. Arguably, inventing
% the \emph{Markov chains} is more important than computing
% the features by hand. Similarly, 
