% Taken verbatim from comps Q4

A preliminary step before doing any Music Information
Retrieval (MIR) is to encode musical information in a
digital representation. According to
\textcite{muller2015music}, there are generally three types
of music representations: digital sheet music images,
symbolic music representations, and audio representations.

Digital sheet music images consist of the digital version of
printed musical scores. Image representations are useful to
distribute musical scores among musicians, or to print them
on paper. However, accessing the musical content of the
scores (e.g., note names, durations, key signatures, or time
signatures) is quite a difficult task, which usually
involves the development of complex Optical Music
Recognition (OMR) systems
\parencite{calvozaragoza2020understanding}.

Symbolic music representations also often refer to digital
representations of sheet music. The main difference is that
symbolic representations are encoded in machine-readable
formats, where the musical content is readily available for
computational analysis. Examples of such representations
include Humdrum(\code{**kern}), Lilypond, MEI, MIDI, and
MusicXML.

Audio representations refer to digital representations of
acoustic sound waves. These representations are very
popular, as a musical performance can be captured and played
by diverse listeners, for example, in music streaming
services. Many MIR tasks operate on audio data.

An automatic Roman numeral analysis algorithm is closely
related to automatic chord recognition (ACR), automatic key
estimation, and MIDI pitch spelling. Over the years, there
have been numerous proposed chord and key estimation
algorithms for symbolic and audio music representations.
These representations encode music in different ways (music
notation and acoustic signals, respectively) and do not
contain the same information nor operate at the same
semantic level. Usually, an algorithm focuses in a single
type of digital music representation but algorithms that
operate in both representations are possible
\parencite{napoleslopez2019keyfinding}. Pitch spelling is
dealt almost always exclusively in the symbolic domain,
because it is closely related to music notation (e.g., how a
black piano key would be notated in a score). Thus, there is
more research and knowledge available to approach automatic
Roman numeral analysis in the symbolic domain. Potentially,
the techniques may be extended to audio representations.

This chapter reviews the methods that have been proposed for chord estimation, key estimation, and pitch spelling.
