% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

A \gls{pcset} $\elpcset$ has an interpretation as one of the
Roman numeral numerators $\elnum \in \setnum$ in a subset of
keys $\setkey_{\elpcset} \subset \setkey$, described in
\refeq{keys_for_pcset}.

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:keys_for_pcset}
    \setkey_{\elpcset} = \{\elkey \mid \elkey \in \setkey,
     \: \text{and $\elpcset$ has an interpretation in key $\elkey$}\}
\end{equation}

For example, given the \gls{pcset} $\elpcset = \pcsetcega{}$,
there is an interpretation for that \gls{pcset} in several
keys, as shown in \refeq{pcset_ceg}.

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:pcset_ceg}
    The \gls{pcset} \elpcset = \pcsetcega \text{ in key } \elkey =
    \begin{cases}
        \keyC & \text{ has a numerator } \elnum = \rnvisev \\
        \keye & \text{ has a numerator } \elnum = \rnivsev \\
        \keyF & \text{ has a numerator } \elnum = \rniiisev \\
        \keyG & \text{ has a numerator } \elnum = \rniisev \\
        \keya & \text{ has a numerator } \elnum = \rnisev \\
    \end{cases}
\end{equation}

Given a pitch class set $\elpcset \in \setpcset$ and a key
$\elkey \in \setkey$, the function $\Gamma(\elpcset, \elkey)
= \elnum$ where $\elnum \in \setnum \cup \: \{ \emptyset \}$
is either a Roman numeral numerator from the bounded
vocabulary or the special symbol $\chi$ if there is no Roman
numeral associated with the ($\elpcset$, $\elkey$) pair.

The function $\Gamma$ can be implemented as a lookup table
that returns $\chi$ when the duple ($\elpcset$, $\elkey$) is
not found, and the Roman numeral numerator $\elnum \in
\setnum$ otherwise.

When $\Gamma(\elpcset, \elkey) = \chi$, the Roman numeral
numerator cannot be retrieved directly. However, it can be
retrieved if a tonicization is forced in the system (i.e.,
the key changes for that particular chord).

% Let $\Gamma(\elpcset, \elkey)$ be a lookup table that
% returns a Roman numeral $\elnum \in \chi$ for all pairs of
% ($\elpcset$, $\elkey$) for which there is a Roman numeral
% association. 
