% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

A Roman numeral numerator $\elnum$ is the only compulsory
symbol in any \gls{rna} label. The
other---optional---symbols being a key $\elkey$ and a
tonicization $\elden$.

A Roman numeral numerator always indicates a chord relative
to a key. When a tonicized key $\elden$ is provided, the
numerator $\elnum$ is relative to this key. However, when
$\elden$ is omitted, the numerator $\elnum$ is relative to
the key $\elkey$, which should have been indicated in at
least the first \gls{rna} label of a piece. One additional
simplification is to assume that if a tonicization $\elden$
is not indicated for a particular \gls{rna} label, then
$\elden = \elkey$. Following this assumption, then the chord
indicated by $\elnum$ is always relative to $\elden$. The
vocabulary of chords allowed for $\elnum$ depends on the
mode of the key $\elden$.

Some of the numerators are common to both major and minor
modes. These are shown in \refeq{common_numerators}. 

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:common_numerators}
    \setnum_{M/m} = \{ \rnCad, \: \rnV, \: \rnviio,
    \rnVsev, \rnN, \: \rnIt, \: \rnFr, \: \rnGer \: \}
\end{equation}

The set of Roman numeral numerators for major and minor keys
consist of the union between the numerators that are common
to both modes $\setnum_{M/m}$ and the numerators that are
exclusive of a given mode. The vocabulary of Roman numeral
numerators for major keys, $\setnum_{M}$, is shown in
\refeq{major_numerators}, and the vocabulary for minor keys
is shown in \refeq{minor_numerators}.

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:major_numerators}
    \setnum_{M} = \setnum_{C} \cup \{ \: \rnI, \: \rnii, \: 
    \rniii, \: \rnIV, \: \rnvi, \rnIsev, \: \rniisev, \: 
    \rniiisev, \: \rnIVsev, \: \rnvisev, \: \rnviihosev, \rnVaug \}
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    \label{eq:minor_numerators}
    \setnum_{m} = \setnum_{C} \cup  \{ \rni, \: \rniio, \: 
    \rnIIIaug, \: \rniv, \: \rnVI, \rnisev, \: \rniihosev, \: 
    \rnIIIaugsev, \: \rnivsev, \: \rnVIsev, \: \rnviiosev \}
\end{equation}


The complete vocabulary of Roman numeral numerators
$\setnum$ comprises all numerators for major minor modes.
Thus, $\setnum$ indicates Roman numeral numerators where
$\forall \: \elnum \in \setnum$.


\begin{equation}
    \setnum = \setnum_{M} \cup \setnum_{m}
\end{equation}

\begin{equation}
    | \setnum | = 31
\end{equation}


\phdtable[Vocabulary of valid Roman numeral labels for this
\gls{rna} method]{rn_vocabulary}

The Roman numeral vocabulary consists mainly of diatonic
harmonies that can be constructed from a major or harmonic
minor scale. A few chords are exceptions to this rule, \:
which I indicated as ``special chords.''

Each of the chords in the vocabulary is explained below.


