% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is \refsec{musicrepresentation}, which introduces the
% music representation.

% Taken verbatim from comps Q4

A preliminary step before doing any Music Information
Retrieval (MIR) is to encode musical information in a
digital representation. According to
\textcite{muller2015music}, there are generally three types
of music representations: digital sheet music images,
symbolic music representations, and audio representations.

Digital sheet music images consist of the digital version of
printed musical scores. Image representations are useful to
distribute musical scores among musicians, or to print them
on paper. However, accessing the musical content of the
scores (e.g., note names, durations, key signatures, or time
signatures) is quite a difficult task, which usually
involves the development of complex Optical Music
Recognition (OMR) systems
\parencite{calvozaragoza2020understanding}.

Symbolic music representations also often refer to digital
representations of sheet music. The main difference is that
symbolic representations are encoded in machine-readable
formats, where the musical content is readily available for
computational analysis. Examples of such representations
include Humdrum(\code{**kern}), Lilypond, MEI, MIDI, and
MusicXML.

Audio representations refer to digital representations of
acoustic sound waves. These representations are very
popular, as a musical performance can be captured and played
by diverse listeners, for example, in music streaming
services. Many MIR tasks operate on audio data.

An automatic Roman numeral analysis algorithm is closely
related to automatic chord recognition (ACR), automatic key
estimation, and MIDI pitch spelling. Over the years, there
have been numerous proposed chord and key estimation
algorithms for symbolic and audio music representations.
These representations encode music in different ways (music
notation and acoustic signals, respectively) and do not
contain the same information nor operate at the same
semantic level. Usually, an algorithm focuses in a single
type of digital music representation but algorithms that
operate in both representations are possible
\parencite{napoleslopez2019keyfinding}.

For the most part, automatic Roman numeral analysis models
operate with symbolic music data. Thus,
\refsubsec{symbolicmusicformats} presents the
characteristics of some of the most common symbolic music
formats. However, the techniques could potentially be
extended to the audio domain.
\refsubsec{symbolicvsaudiorepresentations} discusses the
implications and existing work on this.
