% Copyright 2022 Néstor Nápoles López

The vocabulary of each model is different, as shown in
\reftab{chord_vocabularies}. In addition to the different
qualities of chords supported by each model, the \gls{rna}
syntax is also often distinct (see
\refsec{standardizationofromannumeralannotations}). This
makes it difficult to have a fair comparison across all of
them. Furthermore, the models might be in fact able to
recognize chords that are not explicitly mentioned. For
example, neither the \gls{melisma} nor the
\textcite{mcleod2021modular} models explicitly recognize
\gls{augsix} chords. However, a label of $\rnVsev$ may be
interpreted as an \gls{augsix} chord in a correct key
context, but the predictions of the model will not indicate
it as such. This is true for other types of chords too, such
as \gls{neapolitan} chords. This was a motivation to propose
the \gls{natem} algorithm (see
\refsec{thenumeratorandtonicizationestimationmethod}), which
makes it possible to use a common representation for all the
annotations of the five models, regardless of the source
format. 


\phdtable[The chord vocabularies of the compared
models]{chord_vocabularies}
