% Copyright 2021 Néstor Nápoles López

% This is \refsubsubsec{ambiguousannotations}, which
% introduces the ambiguous annotations.

In his dissertation, \textcite{ju2021addressing} describes
ambiguity in music analysis and, particularly, chord labels.
Ju argues that one possible reason for the ambiguity in
musical analysis is \emph{under-specification}. That is, the
fact that based on the information provided, multiple
answers can respond the same question. A typical example in
chord labels would be whether one analyst considers a note
as chord tone, or a nonchord tone. \reffig{ambiguity} shows
an example of this situation. A \emph{passing tone} is an
ornamental note that connects two notes that are an interval
of a third apart from each other. In the example, the
ornamental note also happens to form an Emin7 chord
($\rn{vi}\rnsixfive$ of G major in Roman numeral notation)
with the other notes. Thus, two answers are arguably
correct for this passage.


\phdfigure[Example of ambiguity in chord analysis. Two
analyses are offered. In \textbf{[A]}, the second beat is
considered an Emin7 chord. In \textbf{[B]}, the note in the
second beat is considered a passing tone (i.e., there is no
chord in the second beat). Reasonable arguments can be made
for either analysis. Thus, both are
correct.][1.0]{ambiguity}
